Amirhossein Sabagh	|	#152956199		|	IPC144NFF
Reflection of Week 2:
Week 2 is finally done. That has been a tough week for me. It’s not that I’m no good at mathematics, it’s the exact opposite; I have been fond of mathematics my whole life. The thing is that the pride I had when it came to calculations and expressions ended up to not reading and watching the tutorials of week 2 before the online sessions started. That just caused a huge confusion for me and led to frustration as I was not understanding what was being taught in the sessions. The blame can somehow be put on this new system of online learning, too; I thought the procedure is, first, teaching in the online sessions, and then using the tutorials to review the lessons and remember them better.
I watched the video tutorials and read written notes in order to light the candles and find the way. I also checked on some webpages, watched a couple of lessons on LinkedIn Learning, and read some chapters of the book “Beginning programming with C for Dummies” (I was feeling the dumbest person ever as I couldn’t solve a simple mathematical problem). My major problem was how to calculate the owe and print it as “your balance owing is $ ”. That could be solved easily thanks to modulus, but it just took more than a complete day to find the proper format. 
I first didn’t want to exchange the amount to be all in cents and I started to write my code without multiplying it to 100. I learned that lesson by experiment that you cannot do mathematical operations with float point values. I always wondered why modulus is counted as an important operation and has a sign defined for it in different programming languages and I got my answer when I was in that confusion phase and was doing some research regarding modulus to understand the concept better. We can replace modulus and do what it does with division and subtraction; but this may result in a lot of things like confusing the compiler, making it harder for ourselves and that increases the percentage error, heavying the source code and increasing the possibility of disruption, and so on.
To sum up, although it was a tough past couple of days for me, I enjoyed it a lot. Mathematics, Programming, and Problem, there’s no more enjoyable thing to ask for :)
